---
title: 'Google Sheets application tracker'
description: 'Using Google Sheets and AppScript to track job applications'
pubDate: 'Sep 29 2024'
---

## Background
As a computer science student at Georgia Tech, much of my time is spent applying to various internship and jobs. During my first year, I used Notion to track all of my applications. In the following year, I used a Google Sheet, with some basic fields and some stats on another page. Finally, over the summer of 2024, I made a well flushed out sheet to track all of my job applications, while autofilling certain fields to minimze how much I would have to fill out. Check out the template I made for the sheet [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1WCZ5PhgM_Gc59VWp4WNeEqTnYkNSJzHnnMc7qePlFqU/edit?usp=sharing)

## Basics
After each applciation, I fill in the company, source, position, and location of the job. The source is where I find the position, such as on LinkedIn, at career fair, or through a someone I know. Then, as I hear back, I update the status when I make it to another stage. If the status is set to either 'Assessment' or 'Interview', but the corresponding checkbox isn't checked, the company name will be highlighted yellow or green respectively, to signify that it is upcoming. The purpose of having the checkboxes in addition to the status is for the statistics page.

## Statistics
There is another sheet labeled "Stats." This is very you can view various metrics like the number of companies applied to, the response rate, as well as a breakdown by source to see which sources of jobs has been the most effective. In the near future, I would like for the sheet to auto-generate numbers for Sankey diagrams, making the creation of those flow charts much easier.

## Conclusion
Though far from complete, I hope that others may find this sheet as useful as I currently do. With many computer science students applying to hundreds of positions, tools like this are becoming more and more useful for tracking what companies they've applied to and where they stand in each process. Additionally, I hope that the stats page can help people analyze how their job hunting has been going and where the most fruitful areas might be.
